The Chair now recognizes himself for questions.
Mr. Rubin, have you read the House resolution?
Pardon me, yes, Sir, I have.
What is your understanding of what this committee has been asked to do?
My understanding is that the Committee has been asked to
review the incidents related to the
Benghazi attacks and in all of the, as you
described it at the beginning, and all of
the aspects that it seeks.
So, your understanding is that we have been asked
to look at all policies, decisions and
activities that contributed to the attacks?
It's certainly that's our understanding and and we we support
providing information related to that request?
That affected our ability to prepare for the attacks?
But if that's the committee's, if that's ultimately
the decision to...
But you've read it, right? You've read the resolution, right? You're not
disagreeing with my interpretation of the resolution, are you?
We defer to the Committee's
direction on on how it wants to proceed...
including Executive Branch efforts to
identify and bring to justice the
perpetrators of these attacks, did you
read that in the resolution?
Eh, Sir, I don't have it in front so I
can't quote... I'll be thrilled to get you a
copy of the resolution, but for the meantime,
you're just going to have to take my word that
it also says Executive Branch efforts to
to identify and bring to justice the perpetrators of these attacks.
That's in the resolution. Can you tell me
specifically how our interviewing
witnesses is going to jeopardize the prosecution?
Sir, the Department of Justice has been clear with...
I'm asking you, it was in your opening statement
I'm asking you, you tell me, a former
prosecutor, how our interviewing
witnesses that have already been
interviewed by the ARB, already been
interviewed by the best practices panel,
and frankly, already been interviewed by
the State Department, the video that
you showed us last week, that agent
interviewed the witnesses in preparation
for a video. So if the ARB and the best
practices panel and your own Agency can
interview people in preparation of a
training video, how can Congress not interview those witnesses?
Sir, no one has said the Congress cannot interview...
You just said that it would jeopardize an ongoing
prosecution and I just asked you
specifically, how?
My understanding, and I am the chief
liaison to the house for the State's
Department is that our colleagues at the
Department of Justice have been in touch with...
Specifically, who told you that?
My colleagues within the State Department who work on the sub-committee...
I'm looking for a name, because I've got to clear up
this misconception that simply talking
to a witness who's already talked to
three other investigatory bodies that
somehow or another Congress cannot talk
to these witnesses even though
apparently everybody else can.
I'm curious to how that jeopardizes an ongoing prosecution?
Sir, I'm not an attorney,
I'm not a prosecutor, what I am is the
Chief Liaison to the House for the State
Department and what I'm conveying is
that the Justice Department has told us
that this could have an impact and they
would like to have a conversation with
you and your committee about that.
When you, do you believe that Congress has the
constitutional authority to provide oversight?
Everyday I do that with my job, yes, Sir.
So you do agree with that.
What what is your interpretation of the
phrase all policies, decisions and activities?
In what context?
In any context how about contributed to the attacks?
What is your understanding of all
policies, all decisions, all activities.
The approach that we're taking at the
State Department is to provide materials
to the Committee at the direction of the Committee.
The requests for interviews
that you have reiterated here today I am
explaining that the Justice Department
has said that they would like to have
conversations with the Committee for the
concern about the protection and welfare
of these agents in an ongoing investigation.
I want to ask you something,
I want to ask you something, ok, because there
are 12 people up here who may not agree
on another single solitary thing but
every one of us agrees that we don't
want to do anything to jeopardize the
physical security of anybody who works
for this government nor does anybody on
this dais want to do anything to
jeopardize an ongoing prosecution.
Okay, can we stipulate that? That nobody wants
to do either of those things? Certainly.
Will you also stipulate that you can
talk to witnesses while preserving their
identity and not jeopardizing an
ongoing prosecution?
I am confident that in the conversations
between the Justice Department and the Committee
that those modalities can be discussed.
I am not the expert on... Mr Rubin, Mr Rubin
Do you see the Justice Department at this hearing?
No, Sir.
Do you know why they're not at this hearing?
Because we don't have any issues with them.
That's why they're not here.
You just cited a reason to deny access to witnesses even
the Justice Department hasn't cited.
So, what I want you to do is help this
Committee gain access to precisely the
same witnesses that everyone else from
the ARB to the best practices panel to
your own agent who compiled a training
video had access to the witnesses.
Sir, as I said in my opening statement,
we are happy to have the conversation
with you and your staff on how to engage
on this and that is something that we're
open to, we have never said no.
Well, and I appreciate that, I appreciate that,
but but I want to make sure that you and
I have a clear understanding with each other.
If six people observed an
important event and you were being
asked to write a final definitive
accounting of that event, how many of the
six would you want to talk to?
Sir, I understand...
It's not a trick question. I
I know it's not a trick question and and
I understand the point and this is why
we are here... Well, if you understand the point...
This is why we provided the quantity of
documents and works in collegial , er, terms...
Mr Rubin, we're going get, we're
gonna get to the quantity of documents in
a minute, I noticed that you said forty
thousand, that's an impressive number.
That's 40 copies of Doctor Zhivago,
that's 40 copies of Crime and Punishment,
that's a lot of, that's a lot of pages.
40,000, out of how many?
That's our question, how many documents?
Is 40,000 half? Is it all? Is it two-thirds?
We have made a comprehensive
search and, as you know, the State
Department spans 275 missions overseas, 70,000...
I'm not asking you to bring any
ambassadors back ... we have a comprehensive amount of ...
ambassadors back to search for emails.
I'm not. Not a single one.
How many employees does the State Department have?
Roughly 70,000.
70,000? Correct. Right, and
we have asked for emails from? 7 floor principles.
Do you think that is a
reasonable request when you have been
asked to study all policies, all
activities and all decisions?
In your, in your Committee's December letter where it
named principles at first many, in fact
all, of those principles have, there are
emails, there are documents related to
them in that 40,000. In an addition, you and your...
Is it your testimony that we have all of the
emails that we've asked for?
What you and your colleagues prioritize Secret..,
former-Secretary Clinton's emails and that is
our priority as I stated in my opening...
Well, I would say multiple emails, if there are
multiple email accounts, we want all of the emails, okay?
and we we agree and we
are I as  I said earlier...
Well, you may have noticed
my colleague from Maryland use the word
"glacial", I find that, I find the use of that
word interesting when you vote against
constituting a Committee, when you
threaten not to participate in the
Committee, when you continually
threaten to walk away from the
Committee, when you can't identify a
single solitary person that you would
issue a subpoena to, when you were
prepared to have an ask and answered
website before you got the fifteen
thousand pages of documents that you
just provided, when you expect members of
Congress who are having conversations
with people on airplanes to stop the
conversation and say "Let me go get a Democrat."
You heard the word glacial.
We're going to pick up the pace.
We're going to pick up the pace. I have no
interest in prolonging this.
None. Sir,... So, you're going to have to pick
up the pace with us, okay?
Absolutely and this is why that we are
here today, I we have made two witnesses
available since the Fall of last year, we
are prepared to at any time, proactively as
you and your colleagues know.
I appreciate that Mr
Rubin. Are you familiar with the subpoena
that dates back to 2013 that the
Oversight Committee sent with respect to
the ARB? Yes. Okay,
ARB is a statutory creation, you agree?
Congress created the ARB? Yes, it did. Do you
agree Congress can amend or alter or
enhance the ARB?  If it's an Act of Congress... If it's a statute, sure,
Congress can change it, right?
You agree Congress should provide
oversight over one of its statutory creations?
Yes, Sir. How can we do that if you will
not give us the documents related to the
ARB? How can we possibly do that, Mr.  Rubin?
Sir, first, of the 40,000 pages of
documents that the Committee has
received, many of those are, in fact,
related to the ARB.
Mr Rubin, I
appreciate, I really do, I really do.
I appreciate the word "many". I appreciate
the 40,000. I keep coming back to one
word that's in the House resolution and that
word is "all". Sir... Do we have ALL ... What
... of the documents? ... What we what we have
communicated to you and and your staff
and what we've been grateful for is the
Committee's explanation of its top
priorities and we would very be very
honored to continue to have those
discussions. If the ARB, as you've
noted here, becomes the top priority well
that is certainly... Mr Rubin, we shouldn't have to
pick among priorities. You have 70,000
employees.
I mean, what we're not going to do is
identify one tranche of emails and then
two months later go to depose or do a
witness interview with that witness and
then two months later get another tranche
of emails. When our colleagues on the
other side, who by the way, had no
interest in forming this Committee
whatsoever, but are now ironically
complaining about the pace of the
Committee that they had no interest in
forming whatsoever, it's not for us to
pick up the pace... So... And I'm looking to
you to help me do that. And and that's
why we're here and that's why we have
continually engage proactively with you
and your Committee and we're happy to
continue to do so. Okay,... And I would mention
the 70,000 employees are engaged in their jobs...
I appreciate that. I don't want any
ambassadors, security guards, I don't want
anybody taken off of an important job
but compliance with congressional
inquiries is important and if you have
time for condemn demonstrations or
culinary diplomacy I think you have time
to comply with a legitimate request for
documents from Congress and I'm sure you
will agree and with that I would like to recognize
the gentleman from Maryland.
I'm